

Call me Ishmael.  Go visit the Prairies in June, when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies--what is the one charm wanting?--Water--there is not a drop of water there! 

Chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whale himself.  He thinks he breathes it first; but not so. 

Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon.  With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly take to the ship.  Strange!  here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and seemingly bound for a dive. 

"WHALING VOYAGE BY ONE ISHMAEL. 

"BLOODY BATTLE IN AFFGHANISTAN."  Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys, streets and avenues--north, east, south, and west.  Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for ever.  Besides, passengers get sea-sick--grow quarrelsome--don't sleep of nights--do not enjoy themselves much, as a general thing;--no, I never go as a passenger; nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook.  No.  Go from Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward.  And, doubtless, my going on this whaling voyage, formed part of the grand programme of Providence that was drawn up a long time ago.  This is my substitute for pistol and ball.  The urbane activity with which a man receives money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven.  Deep into distant woodlands winds a mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their hill-side blue.  There stand his trees, each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within; and here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up from yonder cottage goes a sleepy smoke. 

Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck.  Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island bulk; the undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all the attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped to sway me to my wish. 

There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs--commerce surrounds it with her surf.  Whenever I find myself growing grim about the mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing up the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically knocking people's hats off--then, I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can. 

Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single penny that I ever heard of. 

Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my lungs, I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger.  But wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a merchant sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling voyage; this the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the constant surveillance of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me in some unaccountable way--he can better answer than any one else.  Nothing will content them but the extremest limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder warehouses will not suffice.  There is nothing surprising in this.  He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest, quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of the Saco.  On the contrary, passengers themselves must pay.  Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest reveries--stand that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he will infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in all that region. 

By reason of these things, then, the whaling voyage was welcome; the great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung open, and in the wild conceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two there floated into my inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid most of them all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air.  But though the picture lies thus tranced, and though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon this shepherd's head, yet all were vain, unless the shepherd's eye were fixed upon the magic stream before him.  Right and left, the streets take you waterward. 

But look!  how cheerfully we consign ourselves to perdition!  There is magic in it.  Some years ago--never mind how long precisely--having little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part of the world.  True, they rather order me about some, and make me jump from spar to spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow.  I abandon the glory and distinction of such offices to those who like them.  Surely all this is not without meaning.  It is quite as much as I can do to take care of myself, without taking care of ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not.  Who ain't a slave?  What do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries.  Some leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some looking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in the rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward peep.  Tell me that.  Say you are in the country; in some high land of lakes.  With other men, perhaps, such things would not have been inducements; but as for me, I am tormented with an everlasting itch for things remote.  But BEING PAID,--what will compare with it?  Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to sea?  Are the green fields gone?  Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land?  Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove?  Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach?  Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert, try this experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical professor.  And there they stand--miles of them--leagues.  I love to sail forbidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts.  They must get just as nigh the water as they possibly can without falling in.  Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.  For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a purse is but a rag unless you have something in it.  The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us.  And more than all, if just previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been lording it as a country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand in awe of you.  But these are all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster--tied to counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks.  Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy?  Not ignoring what is good, I am quick to perceive a horror, and could still be social with it--would they let me--since it is but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of the place one lodges in.  Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all those ships attract them thither? 

No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, right before the mast, plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there to the royal mast-head.  But that same image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans.  Yet here they all unite.  Were Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to see it?  Do you think the archangel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance? 

What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the decks?  Ah!  I take it that this part of the bill must have run something like this: "GRAND CONTESTED ELECTION FOR THE PRESIDENCY OF THE UNITED STATES. 

Once more.  It touches one's sense of honour, particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the Van Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes.  It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old Egyptians upon broiled ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the mummies of those creatures in their huge bake-houses the pyramids.  For as in this world, head winds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is, if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from the sailors on the forecastle.  It came in as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive performances.  It is the image of the ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.  In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it.  Its extreme downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of land. 

But here is an artist.  It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and regulating the circulation.  The transition is a keen one, I assure you, from a schoolmaster to a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and the Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it.  Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my curiosity.  For my part, I abominate all honourable respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind whatsoever.  But even this wears off in time.  Take almost any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in a dale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream.  If they but knew it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other, cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.  How then is this?  What does that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the scales of the New Testament?  Well, then, however the old sea-captains may order me about--however they may thump and punch me about, I have the satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else is one way or other served in much the same way--either in a physical or metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is passed round, and all hands should rub each other's shoulder-blades, and be content. 

Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers, the Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage, when others were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short and easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces--though I cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives which being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced me to set about performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the delusion that it was a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill and discriminating judgment.  And as for going as cook,--though I confess there is considerable glory in that, a cook being a sort of officer on ship-board--yet, somehow, I never fancied broiling fowls;--though once broiled, judiciously buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered, there is no one who will speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled fowl than I will.  What do they here?  And there is all the difference in the world between paying and being paid.  And still deeper the meaning of that story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned.  And at first, this sort of thing is unpleasant enough.  What is the chief element he employs?