

Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn, you found yourself in a wide, low, straggling entry with old-fashioned wainscots, reminding one of the bulwarks of some condemned old craft.  In fact, you would a good deal rather not sleep with your own brother.  Be that how it may, there stands the vast arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might almost drive beneath it.  First he takes about a double handful of shavings out of his grego pocket, and places them carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship biscuit on top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings into a sacrificial blaze.  A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a nervous man distracted.  Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at first you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched.  Enveloped in their shaggy watch coats, and with their heads muffled in woollen comforters, all bedarned and ragged, and their beards stiff with icicles, they seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador.  Holding a light in one hand, and that identical New Zealand head in the other, the stranger entered the room, and without looking towards the bed, placed his candle a good way off from me on the floor in one corner, and then began working away at the knotted cords of the large bag I before spoke of as being in the room.  At any rate, I made up my mind that if it so turned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into bed before I did.  I then took off my coat, and thought a little more in my shirt sleeves. 

I now took the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too short; but that could be mended with a chair. 

Still, looking round me again, and seeing no possible chance of spending a sufferable night unless in some other person's bed, I began to think that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices against this unknown harpooneer.  He really did this in not only a civil but a really kind and charitable way.  No wonder, then, that they made a straight wake for the whale's mouth--the bar--when the wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon poured them out brimmers all round.  Supper?--you want supper?  save me!"  again growled the cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the tomahawk scattered the hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought my linen would get on fire.  Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would dart you through.--It's the Black Sea in a midnight gale.--It's the unnatural combat of the four primal elements.--It's a blasted heath.--It's a Hyperborean winter scene.--It's the breaking-up of the icebound stream of Time. 

Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison.  He stood full six feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. 

The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I steal a march on him--bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be wakened by the most violent knockings?  Yes, it's just as I thought, he's a terrible bedfellow; he's been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here he is, just from the surgeon.  At last extinguishing the fire, he took the idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket as carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock. 

Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed his chest and arms.  He now took off his hat--a new beaver hat--when I came nigh singing out with fresh surprise.  Placing these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the New Zealand head--a ghastly thing enough--and crammed it down into the bag.  I took it up, and held it close to the light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to arrive at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it.  Had not the stranger stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quicker than ever I bolted a dinner.  I seed her reported in the offing this morning; a three years' voyage, and a full ship.  Hecla in a snow-storm--"landlord, stop whittling. --he at last said--"you no speak-e, dam-me, I kill-e." 

"Oh, no," said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny, "the harpooneer is a dark complexioned chap.  Though true cylinders without--within, the villanous green goggling glasses deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom.  They were stains of some sort or other. 

All these queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing him now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business operations, and jumping into bed with me, I thought it was high time, now or never, before the light was put out, to break the spell in which I had so long been bound.  I remembered a story of a white man--a whaleman too--who, falling among the cannibals, had been tattooed by them.  Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner.  However, I had never been in the South Seas; and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary effects upon the skin.  Projecting from the further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den--the bar--a rude attempt at a right whale's head.  But the fare was of the most substantial kind--not only meat and potatoes, but dumplings; good heavens!  Queequeg, look here--you sabbee me, I sabbee--you this man sleepe you--you sabbee?"  and darted out of the house in pursuit of him.  He might take a fancy to mine--heavens!  tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me, I kill-e!"  shouted I.  Parallel meridians rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets.  Angels!  look at that tomahawk!  Watch!  what a sight!  getting into a towering rage.  So saying he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief first dusting the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while grinning like an ape.  Thinks I, I'll wait awhile; he must be dropping in before long.  Some were storied weapons.  One complained of a bad cold in his head, upon which Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which he swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never mind of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, or on the weather side of an ice-island.  All these strange antics were accompanied by still stranger guttural noises from the devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or else singing some pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched about in the most unnatural manner.  On one side hung a very large oilpainting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way defaced, that in the unequal crosslights by which you viewed it, it was only by diligent study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful inquiry of the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its purpose.  Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed.  At last I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty nearly made a good offing towards the land of Nod, when I heard a heavy footfall in the passage, and saw a glimmer of light come into the room from under the door. 

This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery, and showed that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling me--but at the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal business as selling the heads of dead idolators?  Why, afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little Johnny in the foot of it.  We were fain to button up our monkey jackets, and hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with our half frozen fingers.  Better sleep with a sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.  Nor was there any earthly reason why I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed, more than anybody else; for sailors no more sleep two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do ashore.  With this once long lance, now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a sunset.  A peddler of heads too--perhaps the heads of his own brothers.  His voice at once announced that he was a Southerner, and from his fine stature, I thought he must be one of those tall mountaineers from the Alleghanian Ridge in Virginia. 

Presently a rioting noise was heard without. 

The liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it generally does even with the arrantest topers newly landed from sea, and they began capering about most obstreperously. 

Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen gathered about a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of SKRIMSHANDER.  All right; take a seat.  I'll have a good look at him then, and perhaps we may become jolly good bedfellows after all--there's no telling.  There's plenty of room for two to kick about in that bed; it's an almighty big bed that.  You shuddered as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage could ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, horrifying implement.  THAT once found out, and all the rest were plain.  The picture represents a Cape-Horner in a great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its three dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, purposing to spring clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of impaling himself upon the three mast-heads.  Starting up, the landlord cried, "That's the Grampus's crew.  I'll try the bench here." 

"Who-e debel you?"  said I, "what sort of a chap is he--does he always keep such late hours?"  shouted I. 

"Sartain, and that's the very reason he can't sell it, I guess."  "But wait a bit, Skrimshander; I've got a carpenter's plane there in the bar--wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug enough." 

"That's precisely it," said the landlord, "and I told him he couldn't sell it here, the market's overstocked."  "But come, it's getting dreadful late, you had better be turning flukes--it's a nice bed; Sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced.  They had just landed from their boat, and this was the first house they entered. 

A tramping of sea boots was heard in the entry; the door was flung open, and in rolled a wild set of mariners enough. 

Whether that mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery, there is no telling, but I rolled about a good deal, and could not sleep for a long time.  Come along here, I'll give ye a glim in a jiffy;" and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards me, offering to lead the way. 

"You gettee in," he added, motioning to me with his tomahawk, and throwing the clothes to one side.  One young fellow in a green box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in a most direful manner. 

"I'll break it for him," said I, now flying into a passion again at this unaccountable farrago of the landlord's.  The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty, so that I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol.  His bald purplish head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull. 

In fact, the artist's design seemed this: a final theory of my own, partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons with whom I conversed upon the subject.  Taking up his tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an instant, and then holding it to the light, with his mouth at the handle, he puffed out great clouds of tobacco smoke.  At one end a ruminating tar was still further adorning it with his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at the space between his legs.  He never eats dumplings, he don't--he eats nothing but steaks, and he likes 'em rare."  "But avast," he added, tapping his forehead, "you haint no objections to sharing a harpooneer's blanket, have ye?  You and I must understand one another, and that too without delay.  Some were thickly set with glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots of human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round like the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower. 

"My boy," said the landlord, "you'll have the nightmare to a dead sartainty." 

"Wall," said the landlord, fetching a long breath, "that's a purty long sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and then.  Besides, it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be home and going bedwards.  Besides, I ain't insured." 

"Broke," said I--"BROKE, do you mean?" 

"He'll be here afore long," was the answer. 

"Can't sell his head?--What sort of a bamboozingly story is this you are telling me?" 

"Speak-e!  Coffin!  even the great leviathan himself?  Mixed with these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons all broken and deformed.  So gathering up the shavings with another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in the middle of the room, he went about his business, and left me in a brown study.  I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this harpooneer is, and whether I shall be in all respects safe to spend the night with him.  His face was deeply brown and burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in the deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to give him much joy. 

Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not what else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the evening as a looker on.  Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger, I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night.  I then placed the first bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall, leaving a little interval between, for my back to settle down in.  I stood looking at him a moment. 

"Landlord," I whispered, "that aint the harpooneer is it?" 

"May be not," taking out a stick and whittling a toothpick, "but I rayther guess you'll be done BROWN if that ere harpooneer hears you a slanderin' his head." 

"He pays reg'lar," was the rejoinder. 

"With what?"  dumplings for supper!  Supper'll be ready directly." 

"Don't be afraid now," said he, grinning again, "Queequeg here wouldn't harm a hair of your head."  "Do you pretend to say, landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed Saturday night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head around this town?"  "No," he answered, "generally he's an early bird--airley to bed and airley to rise--yes, he's the bird what catches the worm.  Of things not properly belonging to the room, there was a hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large seaman's bag, containing the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a land trunk.  At first I knew not what to make of this; but soon an inkling of the truth occurred to me. 

I observed, however, that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though he seemed desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his own sober face, yet upon the whole he refrained from making as much noise as the rest. 

This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely motioned me to get into bed--rolling over to one side as much as to say--"I won't touch a leg of ye."  This accomplished, however, he turned round--when, good heavens!  where's Bulkington?" 

I considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough, with a prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast.  Within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction, like another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him), bustles a little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors deliriums and death.  And about this harpooneer, whom I have not yet seen, you persist in telling me the most mystifying and exasperating stories tending to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow--a sort of connexion, landlord, which is an intimate and confidential one in the highest degree. 

Lord save me, thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal head-peddler.  It was now hard upon twelve o'clock.  The original iron entered nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle sojourning in the body of a man, travelled full forty feet, and at last was found imbedded in the hump. 

Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the window, but it was the second floor back. 

"Just as you please; I'm sorry I cant spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress, and it's a plaguy rough board here"--feeling of the knots and notches.  As I live, these covered parts of him were checkered with the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all over the same dark squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years' War, and just escaped from it with a sticking-plaster shirt. 

"I thought so. 

I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should ever do so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and that if he (the landlord) really had no other place for me, and the harpooneer was not decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander further about a strange town on so bitter a night, I would put up with the half of any decent man's blanket.  He was trying his hand at a ship under full sail, but he didn't make much headway, I thought.  But stop; does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic fish?  What's all this fuss I have been making about, thought I to myself--the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him.  I s'pose you are goin' a-whalin', so you'd better get used to that sort of thing." 

"It's broke a'ready," said he. 

"Me sabbee plenty"--grunted Queequeg, puffing away at his pipe and sitting up in bed. 

"There," said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea chest that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; "there, make yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye." 

"Stop your grinning," shouted I, "and why didn't you tell me that that infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?" 

"With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world?" 

"I thought ye know'd it;--didn't I tell ye, he was a peddlin' heads around town?--but turn flukes again and go to sleep.  I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in the neck.  In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him.  He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as he was goin' out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the airth like a string of inions." 

"I tell you what it is, landlord," said I quite calmly, "you'd better stop spinning that yarn to me--I'm not green." 

"Good night, landlord," said I, "you may go."  And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark.  I've changed my mind about that harpooneer.--I shan't sleep with him.  Fill to THIS mark, and your charge is but a penny; to THIS a penny more; and so on to the full glass--the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down for a shilling.  Still more, his very legs were marked, as if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up the trunks of young palms.  For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely looking cannibal.  I quaked to think of it. 

I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this "dark complexioned" harpooneer. 

"The devil he does," says I.  "Where is that harpooneer? 

"Depend upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man." 

"Landlord!" 

Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away from him against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again.  Presently, after many hasty snatches into the fire, and still hastier withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be scorching them badly), he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit; then blowing off the heat and ashes a little, he made a polite offer of it to the little negro.  I concluded that this harpooneer, in the course of his distant voyages, must have met with a similar adventure. 

"Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin!"  Hurrah, boys; now we'll have the latest news from the Feegees." 

"Landlord," said I, "tell him to stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or whatever you call it; tell him to stop smoking, in short, and I will turn in with him.  It's only his outside; a man can be honest in any sort of skin.  When the revelry of his companions had mounted to its height, this man slipped away unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my comrade on the sea.  I don't know how it is, but people like to be private when they are sleeping. 

Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way--cut through what in old times must have been a great central chimney with fireplaces all round--you enter the public room.  I have seldom seen such brawn in a man.  But I don't fancy having a man smoking in bed with me.  I went up in it to a bit of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my life.  For who could tell but what the next morning, so soon as I popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be standing in the entry, all ready to knock me down!  Such a face!  It's dangerous.  And that harpoon--so like a corkscrew now--was flung in Javan seas, and run away with by a whale, years afterwards slain off the Cape of Blanco.  On one side stood a long, low, shelf-like table covered with cracked glass cases, filled with dusty rarities gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks.  And when it comes to sleeping with an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town, and that stranger a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely multiply.  But seeing that it was not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony, I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol, which indeed it proved to be.  But be easy, be easy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin' you of has just arrived from the south seas, where he bought up a lot of 'balmed New Zealand heads (great curios, you know), and he's sold all on 'em but one, and that one he's trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow's Sunday, and it would not do to be sellin' human heads about the streets when folks is goin' to churches.  But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night, and somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm. 

"Landlord!  I sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated with a room, received for answer that his house was full--not a bed unoccupied.  I began to twitch all over.  Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at midnight--how could I tell from what vile hole he had been coming?  Yet was there a sort of indefinite, half-attained, unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to it, till you involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous painting meant.  The next moment the light was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his teeth, sprang into bed with me.  I was all eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for some time while employed in unlacing the bag's mouth.  "Landlord!  I come to your house and want a bed; you tell me you can only give me half a one; that the other half belongs to a certain harpooneer.  It seemed no bad idea; but upon second thoughts I dismissed it.  But then, what to make of his unearthly complexion, that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completely independent of the squares of tattooing.  It was of a dark, purplish, yellow colour, here and there stuck over with large blackish looking squares. 

"Landlord," said I, going up to him as cool as Mt.  Bulkington!  I am no coward, but what to make of this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension. 

I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a bench on the Battery.  It was cold as Iceland--no fire at all--the landlord said he couldn't afford it.  But his guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my meaning. 

I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half hidden image, feeling but ill at ease meantime--to see what was next to follow.  But at that moment he chanced to turn his face so towards the light, that I plainly saw they could not be sticking-plasters at all, those black squares on his cheeks.  A still duskier place is this, with such low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled planks beneath, that you would almost fancy you trod some old craft's cockpits, especially of such a howling night, when this corner-anchored old ark rocked so furiously. 

But what is this on the chest?  Is he here?" 

Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed. 

I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about this head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat.  The landlord was near spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven's sake to quit--the bed was soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing in the world could make eider down of a pine plank.  To be sure, it might be nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun's tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one.  For now the savage goes up to the empty fire-place, and removing the papered fire-board, sets up this little hunch-backed image, like a tenpin, between the andirons.  To be sure they all sleep together in one apartment, but you have your own hammock, and cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your own skin.  I can compare it to nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills round an Indian moccasin.  Arter that, Sal said it wouldn't do.  It was fair to presume that being a harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of the tidiest, certainly none of the finest. 

The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and seemed to be mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension. 

I turned in, and never slept better in my life.  I turned round from eyeing the bed, but he had disappeared.  But by dint of much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and especially by throwing open the little window towards the back of the entry, you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea, however wild, might not be altogether unwarranted. 

It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming almost supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself upon a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance of the seamen.  Though none of the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well. 

The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated the thought of sleeping with him. 

But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes, and going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.  I sang out, I could not help it now; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment he began feeling me.  Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, or dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in the pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back, and exactly the colour of a three days' old Congo baby.  I put it on, to try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggy and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this mysterious harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day. 

The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a heathenish array of monstrous clubs and spears.  Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each in a winding sheet.  This man interested me at once; and since the sea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my shipmate (though but a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is concerned), I will here venture upon a little description of him.  But, after some difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling in it, and presently pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on.  It was now quite plain that he must be some abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whaleman in the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian country. 

At last some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in an adjoining room.  After thinking some time on the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in the middle of the room thinking.  In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates, and being, it seems, for some reason a huge favourite with them, they raised a cry of "Bulkington!  But beginning to feel very cold now, half undressed as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about the harpooneer's not coming home at all that night, it being so very late, I made no more ado, but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots, and then blowing out the light tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the care of heaven.  The shavings flew right and left; till at last the plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot.  But it was a foot too narrow, and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher than the planed one--so there was no yoking them.  But the little devil did not seem to fancy such dry sort of fare at all; he never moved his lips.  There was no hair on his head--none to speak of at least--nothing but a small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead.  And in the first place, you will be so good as to unsay that story about selling his head, which if true I take to be good evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I've no idea of sleeping with a madman; and you, sir, YOU I mean, landlord, YOU, sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render yourself liable to a criminal prosecution."  Now, while all these ideas were passing through me like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at all.  But I soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from under the sill of the window, that this plan would never do at all, especially as another current from the rickety door met the one from the window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in the immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the night.  There was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat, as you see the same in South American ponchos.  And what is it, thought I, after all!  I then glanced round the room; and besides the bedstead and centre table, could see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf, the four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale. 

But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen. 

But the interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.  But to-night he went out a peddling, you see, and I don't see what on airth keeps him so late, unless, may be, he can't sell his head." 

No man prefers to sleep two in a bed.  But could it be possible that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade the streets of any Christian town in that sort of guise? 

But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long, limber, portentous, black mass of something hovering in the centre of the picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a nameless yeast.  But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord came into the room light in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.  But at last all these fancies yielded to that one portentous something in the picture's midst.  But I lay perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word till spoken to.  But I stood irresolute; when looking at a clock in the corner, he exclaimed "I vum it's Sunday--you won't see that harpooneer to-night; he's come to anchor somewhere--come along then; DO come; WON'T ye come?"