

It was nearly six o'clock, but only grey imperfect misty dawn, when we drew nigh the wharf.  Good-bye to ye.  I wonder he don't wake." 

"Going aboard?" 

"Elijah," said I, "you will oblige my friend and me by withdrawing.  We are going to the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to be detained." 

"Avast!"  he rejoined, again moving off. 

"Lookee here," said Queequeg, shaking himself, "go 'way!"  And so saying he went on deck, and we followed.  I was going to warn ye against--but never mind, never mind--it's all one, all in the family too;--sharp frost this morning, ain't it?  Do you know, Mr.  Starbuck's astir," said the rigger.  "Morning to ye." 

Queequeg removed himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and lighted his tomahawk pipe.  He put his hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though feeling if it was soft enough; and then, without more ado, sat quietly down there.  Going forward to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open.  The cabin entrance was locked within; the hatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging.  It was Elijah.  I sat at the feet. 

I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we heard a noise on deck.  cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few paces.  Coming back afore breakfast?" 

"Yes, we are," said I, "but what business is that of yours?  Shan't see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it's before the Grand Jury." 

"Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye?  perry easy!"  said I, looking dubiously at the sleeper.  Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisibly enshrined within his cabin.  He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed troubled in the nose; then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and rubbed his eyes.  He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his face downwards and inclosed in his folded arms. 

He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe, which, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed his soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger. 

It was now clear sunrise. 

At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found everything in profound quiet, not a soul moving.  Besides, it was very convenient on an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs which are convertible into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief calling his attendant, and desiring him to make a settee of himself under a spreading tree, perhaps in some damp marshy place.  The strong vapour now completely filling the contracted hole, it began to tell upon him.  Get off, Queequeg!  morning to ye!"  cried a voice, whose owner at the same time coming close behind us, laid a hand upon both our shoulders, and then insinuating himself between us, stood stooping forward a little, in the uncertain twilight, strangely peering from Queequeg to me.  Meanwhile, upon questioning him in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave me to understand that, in his land, owing to the absence of settees and sofas of all sorts, the king, chiefs, and great people generally, were in the custom of fattening some of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a house comfortably in that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy fellows, and lay them round in the piers and alcoves.  Seeing a light, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a tattered pea-jacket. 

While narrating these things, every time Queequeg received the tomahawk from me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the sleeper's head. 

"Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?" 

"No, no, no; I wasn't aware of that," said Elijah, slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg, with the most unaccountable glances.  The Captain came aboard last night." 

"Ye be, be ye?  But I beat the thing down; and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg that perhaps we had best sit up with the body; telling him to establish himself accordingly.  "Oh!  very benevolent countenance then; but how hard he breathes, he's heaving himself; get off, Queequeg, you are heavy, it's grinding the face of the poor. 

"Holloa!  perry dood seat," said Queequeg, "my country way; won't hurt him face."  Queequeg, don't sit there," said I. 

"There are some sailors running ahead there, if I see right," said I to Queequeg, "it can't be shadows; she's off by sunrise, I guess; come on!" 

Struck by this plain matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying, "Yes, I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure." 

"Oh!  She sails to-day.  We kept the pipe passing over the sleeper, from one to the other.  The profoundest slumber slept upon him. 

Once more we quitted him; but once more he came softly after us; and touching my shoulder again, said, "See if you can find 'em now, will ye?  Look, he'll twitch you off soon. 

"Ain't going aboard, then?" 

"Very dim, very dim," said Elijah. 

"Perry easy, kill-e; oh!  Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?" 

"Never mind him," said I, "Queequeg, come on."  And with these cracked words he finally departed, leaving me, for the moment, in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence. 

"Face!"  he breathed at last, "who be ye smokers?" 

"Hands off, will you," said I. 

"Shipped men," answered I, "when does she sail?"  "He's a lively chief mate, that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn to." 

"What Captain?--Ahab?"  said I, "call that his face? 

"Morning to ye! 

"Gracious!  But it seemed that, when on the wharf, Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence I would have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that matter, were it not for Elijah's otherwise inexplicable question.  Soon the crew came on board in twos and threes; the riggers bestirred themselves; the mates were actively engaged; and several of the shore people were busy in bringing various last things on board. 

But he stole up to us again, and suddenly clapping his hand on my shoulder, said--"Did ye see anything looking like men going towards that ship a while ago?" 

"Who but him indeed?" 

"Holloa!" 

"Find who?" 

"He's cracked, Queequeg," said I, "come on." 

"Holloa!" 

"What's that for, Queequeg?"