

At length, towards noon, upon the final dismissal of the ship's riggers, and after the Pequod had been hauled out from the wharf, and after the ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a whale-boat, with her last gift--a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her brother-in-law, and a spare Bible for the steward--after all this, the two Captains, Peleg and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to the chief mate, Peleg said: "Now, Mr.  Starbuck, drive'em aft." 

"Aft here, ye sons of bachelors," he cried, as the sailors lingered at the main-mast.  "Mr.  Stubb; it was a little leaky, I thought.  I was comforting myself, however, with the thought that in pious Bildad might be found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear, and turning round, was horrified at the apparition of Captain Peleg in the act of withdrawing his leg from my immediate vicinity.  If ye touch at the islands, Mr.  Stubb--luck to ye, Mr.  Mr. 

Lank Bildad, as pilot, headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as the old craft deep dived into the green seas, and sent the shivering frost all over her, and the winds howled, and the cordage rang, his steady notes were heard,-- "Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green. 

At last we gained such an offing, that the two pilots were needed no longer. 

At last the anchor was up, the sails were set, and off we glided.  And here Bildad, who, with Peleg, be it known, in addition to his other officers, was one of the licensed pilots of the port--he being suspected to have got himself made a pilot in order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was concerned in, for he never piloted any other craft--Bildad, I say, might now be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching anchor, and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave of psalmody, to cheer the hands at the windlass, who roared forth some sort of a chorus about the girls in Booble Alley, with hearty good will. 

"Strike the tent there!"  he roared. 

"No need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg," said Bildad, "but away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding."  "I hope ye'll have fine weather now, so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye--a pleasant sun is all he needs, and ye'll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go.  Boat ahoy! --was the next command, and the crew sprang for the handspikes.  Hurrah and away!" 

"Man the capstan!  Blood and thunder!--jump!" --was the next order. 

"Is that the way they heave in the marchant service?"  "Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and break thy backbone!  and with that, Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the boat.  Starbuck, mind that cooper don't waste the spare staves.  They were full of hope and fruition.  Indeed, as that was not at all his proper business, but the pilot's; and as he was not yet completely recovered--so they said--therefore, Captain Ahab stayed below. 

Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a screaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave three heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic.  The long rows of teeth on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight; and like the white ivory tusks of some huge elephant, vast curving icicles depended from the bows.  The stout sail-boat that had accompanied us began ranging alongside.  He seemed to do most of the talking and commanding, and not Bildad.  I almost thought he would sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I paused on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of the perils we both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a pilot. 

Never did those sweet words sound more sweetly to me than then.  For loath to depart, yet; very loath to leave, for good, a ship bound on so long and perilous a voyage--beyond both stormy Capes; a ship in which some thousands of his hard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in which an old shipmate sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once more starting to encounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say good-bye to a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him,--poor old Bildad lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides; ran down into the cabin to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, and looked to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only bounded by the far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards the land; looked aloft; looked right and left; looked everywhere and nowhere; and at last, mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin, convulsively grasped stout Peleg by the hand, and holding up a lantern, for a moment stood gazing heroically in his face, as much as to say, "Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it; yes, I can."  And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck--now a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate. 

Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg ripped and swore astern in the most frightful manner. 

"God bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men," murmured old Bildad, almost incoherently.  It was a short, cold Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into night, we found ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose freezing spray cased us in ice, as in polished armor.  Flask, beware of fornication.  Muster 'em aft here--blast 'em!"  And all this seemed natural enough; especially as in the merchant service many captains never show themselves on deck for a considerable time after heaving up the anchor, but remain over the cabin table, having a farewell merry-making with their shore friends, before they quit the ship for good with the pilot. 

As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but for all his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the lantern came too near.  Luck to ye, Starbuck--luck to ye, Mr.  Thinks I, Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.  As I hinted before, this whalebone marquee was never pitched except in port; and on board the Pequod, for thirty years, the order to strike the tent was well known to be the next thing to heaving up the anchor. 

But, at last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look about him,--"Captain Bildad--come, old shipmate, we must go.  Don't whale it too much a' Lord's days, men; but don't miss a fair chance either, that's rejecting Heaven's good gifts.  And so saying, he moved along the windlass, here and there using his leg very freely, while imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody. 

But there was not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain Peleg was now all alive.  Here upon the very point of starting for the voyage, Captain Peleg and Captain Bildad were going it with a high hand on the quarter-deck, just as if they were to be joint-commanders at sea, as well as to all appearances in port.  Back the main-yard there!  Flask--good-bye and good luck to ye all--and this day three years I'll have a hot supper smoking for ye in old Nantucket.  Be careful in the hunt, ye mates.  Be careful with the butter--twenty cents the pound it was, and mind ye, if--" "Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering,--away!"  So to the Jews old Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between."  Captain Ahab is all ready--just spoke to him--nothing more to be got from shore, eh?  Careful, careful!--come, Bildad, boy--say your last.  Don't keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr.  Starbuck; it'll spoil.  Starbuck, are you sure everything is right?  Why don't ye spring, I say, all of ye--spring!  the sail-needles are in the green locker!  Oh!  within the year.  Don't stave the boats needlessly, ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent.  Good-bye, good-bye!  Quohog!  spring, thou chap with the red whiskers; spring there, Scotch-cap; spring, thou green pants.  Spite of this frigid winter night in the boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket, there was yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in store; and meads and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by the spring, untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer. 

It was curious and not unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected at this juncture, especially Captain Bildad.  Have an eye to the molasses tierce, Mr.  Spring, I say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!" 

Now in getting under weigh, the station generally occupied by the pilot is the forward part of the ship.  But then, the idea was, that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the ship under weigh, and steering her well out to sea.  Stand by to come close alongside, now! 

How now!  That was my first kick.  Don't forget your prayers, either.  Nevertheless, not three days previous, Bildad had told them that no profane songs would be allowed on board the Pequod, particularly in getting under weigh; and Charity, his sister, had placed a small choice copy of Watts in each seaman's berth.  And, as for Captain Ahab, no sign of him was yet to be seen; only, they said he was in the cabin.  Well, call all hands, then.