

Next morning Stubb accosted Flask. 

"What do you think of that now, Flask?  Remember what I say; BE kicked by him; account his kicks honours; and on no account kick back; for you can't help yourself, wise Stubb.  There are whales hereabouts!  Besides,' thinks I, 'look at it once; why, the end of it--the foot part--what a small sort of end it is; whereas, if a broad footed farmer kicked me, THERE'S a devilish broad insult.  Ahab seemed a pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept kicking at it.  But, somehow, next moment I was over the fright.  I snored; rolled over; and there I was in my hammock!  It's not a real leg, only a false leg.' 

"If ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!  Slid!  man, but I was frightened.  But now comes the greatest joke of the dream, Flask.  But it's made a wise man of me, Flask.  Don't you see that pyramid?'  'Yes, he did,' says I.  'What are you 'bout?'  says he.  No, you were kicked by a great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb.  D'ye see Ahab standing there, sideways looking over the stern?  With that, he all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer fashion, to swim off into the air.  Such a phiz!  it wasn't a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it?  Well, the best thing you can do, Flask, is to let the old man alone; never speak to him, whatever he says.  Seeing he wasn't going to stop saying over his 'wise Stubb, wise Stubb,' I thought I might as well fall to kicking the pyramid again. 

"I don't know; it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho.'" 

"May be; may be.  That's what makes a blow from the hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane.  But what was still more curious, Flask--you know how curious all dreams are--through all this rage that I was in, I somehow seemed to be thinking to myself, that after all, it was not much of an insult, that kick from Ahab.  Stand by for it, Flask.  But this insult is whittled down to a point only.' 

"Such a queer dream, King-Post, I never had.  A white whale--did ye mark that, man?  Do YOU want a kick?'  'Wise Stubb,' said he, 'wise Stubb;' and kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of his own gums like a chimney hag.  But I had only just lifted my foot for it, when he roared out, 'Stop that kicking!'  Says I, on second thoughts, 'I guess I won't kick you, old fellow.'  'Halloa,' says I, 'what's the matter now, old fellow?'  says I at last.  You know the old man's ivory leg, well I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to kick back, upon my soul, my little man, I kicked my leg right off!  Ahab has that that's bloody on his mind.  It's an honour; I consider it an honour.  By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a clout--what do you think, I saw?--why thunder alive, man, his stern was stuck full of marlinspikes, with the points out.  Didn't he kick with right good will?  And thinks I to myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly toes against that cursed pyramid--so confoundedly contradictory was it all, all the while, I say, I was thinking to myself, 'what's his leg now, but a cane--a whalebone cane.  Yes,' thinks I, 'it was only a playful cudgelling--in fact, only a whaleboning that he gave me--not a base kick.  What's that he shouts?  Look ye--there's something special in the wind.  The living member--that makes the living insult, my little man.  Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?" 

"Mast-head, there!  ain't there a small drop of something queer about that, eh?  Listen, wise Stubb.  Halloa!  Hark!"  And then, presto!  Look sharp, all of ye!  And there's a mighty difference between a living thump and a dead thump.  While I was battering away at the pyramid, a sort of badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by the shoulders, and slews me round.  In old England the greatest lords think it great glory to be slapped by a queen, and made garter-knights of; but, be YOUR boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by old Ahab, and made a wise man of.  But, mum; he comes this way."  Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?'  'Why,' thinks I, 'what's the row?  'Very good,' says he--'he used his ivory leg, didn't he?'  'Look ye here,' says he; 'let's argue the insult.  'And what business is that of yours, I should like to know, Mr.  Humpback?  'What am I about?'  'Yes, he did,' says I--'right HERE it was.'  'Well then,' says he, 'wise Stubb, what have you to complain of?