

(ENTER AHAB: THEN, ALL) It was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one morning shortly after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the cabin-gangway to the deck. 

Soon his steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old rounds, upon planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all over dented, like geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk.  It seemed as though, by some nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the same fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own magnetic life.  But this did not last long.  But what's this long face about, Mr.  Starbuck; wilt thou not chase the white whale?  Yon ratifying sun now waits to sit upon it.  Did you fixedly gaze, too, upon that ribbed and dented brow; there also, you would see still stranger foot-prints--the foot-prints of his one unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.  Suddenly he came to a halt by the bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into the auger-hole there, and with one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck to send everybody aft.  Forthwith, slowly going from one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon sockets with the fiery waters from the pewter.  All visible objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks.  Are they not one and all with Ahab, in this matter of the whale?  why stay ye not when ye come?  and I'll chase him round Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom, and round perdition's flames before I give him up.  But not my master, man, is even that fair play.  Reckon it.  It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the serpent-snapping eye.  Truth hath no confines.  Vehemently pausing, he cried:-- "What do ye do when ye see a whale, men?" 

"Captain Ahab," said Starbuck, who, with Stubb and Flask, had thus far been eyeing his superior with increasing surprise, but at last seemed struck with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder. 

The hours wore on;--Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the deck, with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.  But those wild eyes met his, as the bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves meet the eye of their leader, ere he rushes on at their head in the trail of the bison; but, alas!  he snorts to think of it.  Perchance, too, it would have dropped ye dead.  Men, ye seem the years; so brimming life is gulped and gone.  Perchance ye need it not.  He tasks me; he heaps me; I see in him outrageous strength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it.  Yet not so much predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things within. 

When the entire ship's company were assembled, and with curious and not wholly unapprehensive faces, were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike the weather horizon when a storm is coming up, Ahab, after rapidly glancing over the bulwarks, and then darting his eyes among the crew, started from his standpoint; and as though not a soul were nigh him resumed his heavy turns upon the deck.  Then ranging them before him near the capstan, with their harpoons in their hands, while his three mates stood at his side with their lances, and the rest of the ship's company formed a circle round the group; he stood for an instant searchingly eyeing every man of his crew.  With bent head and half-slouched hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering among the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat. 

"Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?" 

"Captain Ahab," said Tashtego, "that white whale must be the same that some call Moby Dick."  Starbuck paled, and turned, and shivered.  The Pagan leopards--the unrecking and unworshipping things, that live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel!  Bestow them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble league. 

It drew near the close of day. 

But on the occasion in question, those dents looked deeper, even as his nervous step that morning left a deeper mark.  Once more, and finally, the replenished pewter went the rounds among the frantic crew; when, waving his free hand to them, they all dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin. 

"God bless ye," he seemed to half sob and half shout.  To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous." 

"Advance, ye mates!  Down lances!  bad pennies come not sooner.  For could the sun do that, then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair play herein, jealousy presiding over all creations.  Short draughts--long swallows, men; 'tis hot as Satan's hoof.  Hand it me--here's a hollow!  D'ye see it?  Who's over me?  Aye, aye," he shouted with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken moose; "Aye, aye!  methinks it rings most vast, but hollow." 

"And what do ye next, men?"  Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest eye of Starbuck fell downright.  The long, barbed steel goblets were lifted; and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the spirits were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss. 

"Good!" --holding up a broad bright coin to the sun--"it is a sixteen dollar piece, men.  'Twill soon be out." 

"Who told thee that?" 

"Sing out for him!"  cried the seamen, as with swinging tarpaulins they hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast. 

But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the mate, Ahab did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh from the hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage; nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the masts, as for a moment their hearts sank in.  Drink, ye harpooneers!  Starbuck, hand me yon top-maul." 

"Drink and pass!"  said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or never given on ship-board except in some extraordinary case.  If man will strike, strike through the mask!  Talk not to me of blasphemy, man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me.  So, so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to anger-glow.  But 'tis enough.  Take off thine eye!  Madness!  it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a poor pegging lubber of me for ever and a day!"  murmured Starbuck, lowly. 

"Moby Dick?"  "Captain Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick--but it was not Moby Dick that took off thy leg?" 

"Send everybody aft," repeated Ahab. 

"Hark ye yet again--the little lower layer.  Disdain the task?  d'ye see this Spanish ounce of gold?" 

"It's a white whale, I say," resumed Ahab, as he threw down the topmaul: "a white whale.  Well done!  go draw the great measure of grog.  The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic aspect. 

But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab, now half-revolving in his pivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud, and tightly, almost convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus:-- "All ye mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white whale.  (ASIDE) Something shot from my dilated nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs.  But rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows!  The irons!  boy, come back?  Ha!  it will not fetch thee much in our Nantucket market." 

"And he have one, two, three--oh!  the measure!"  shouted the harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the excited old man: "A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance for Moby Dick!" 

"Nantucket market!  your own condescension, THAT shall bend ye to it.  Sometimes I think there's naught beyond.  I meant not to incense thee. 

While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without speaking, was slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket, as if to heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile lowly humming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and inarticulate that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his vitality in him. 

"Huzza!  huzza!"  cried Ahab; then pausing, "Aye, Starbuck; aye, my hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted me; Moby Dick that brought me to this dead stump I stand on now.  So, so; it goes round excellently.  Cross your lances full before me.  I do not order ye; ye will it.  So, so; now, ye cup-bearers, advance.  If money's to be the measurer, man, and the accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by girdling it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then, let me tell thee, that my vengeance will fetch a great premium HERE!"  whispered Stubb; "the chick that's in him pecks the shell.  Hand it me.  For did ye three but once take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, THAT had perhaps expired from out me.  I think ye do look brave." 

Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the detached iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs up, before him.  To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me.  I have mustered ye all round this capstan; and ye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers, stand there with your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may in some sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me.  For again Starbuck's downcast eyes lighted up with the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died away; the winds blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as before. 

All this while Tashtego, Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even more intense interest and surprise than the rest, and at the mention of the wrinkled brow and crooked jaw they had started as if each was separately touched by some specific recollection.  constrainings seize thee; I see!  Death and devils!  Look ye!  Starbuck!  drink and swear, ye men that man the deathful whaleboat's bow--Death to Moby Dick!  Starbuck now is mine; cannot oppose me now, without rebellion." 

"And what tune is it ye pull to, men?" 

"Vengeance on a dumb brute!"  cried Ahab; "but, maybe, 'tis well.  'Tis but to help strike a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck.  For with little external to constrain us, the innermost necessities in our being, these still drive us on. 

Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he ordered them to produce their weapons.  That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent, or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him.  How can the prisoner reach outside except by thrusting through the wall?  Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, were't not thou St.  Vitus' imp--away, thou ague!  But look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing unsays itself.  Cant them; cant them over!  And now, ye mates, I do appoint ye three cupbearers to my three pagan kinsmen there--yon three most honourable gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers.  Commend the murderous chalices!  Oh, my sweet cardinals!  but the deed is done!  Turn up the socket!  Round with it, round!  How many barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab?  more intolerable than fiends' glarings is a doltish stare!  see yonder Turkish cheeks of spotted tawn--living, breathing pictures painted by the sun. 

Receiving the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mast with the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the other, and with a high raised voice exclaiming: "Whosoever of ye raises me a white-headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw; whosoever of ye raises me that white-headed whale, with three holes punctured in his starboard fluke--look ye, whosoever of ye raises me that same white whale, he shall have this gold ounce, my boys!"  cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the hearty animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically thrown them.  There are men from whom warm words are small indignity.  See yonder Chilian!  Cut your seizings and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!"  cried Ahab, "aye, Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted and wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his spout is a big one, like a whole shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after the great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he fan-tails like a split jib in a squall.  Ah, ye admonitions and warnings!  only to fall into the hidden snare of the Indian. 

"D'ye mark him, Flask?"  shouted Ahab. 

"Lower away, and after him!"  So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the three level, radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing, suddenly and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently from Starbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask.  "The crew alone now drink.  Then tossing both arms, with measureless imprecations he shouted out: "Aye, aye!  he laughs!  take them; hold them while I fill!"  cried Starbuck, "that simply smote thee from blindest instinct!  Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost sapling cannot, Starbuck!  the billow lifts thee!  "Mast-heads, there!  thy silence, then, THAT voices thee.  Steward, refill!  good many iron in him hide, too, Captain," cried Queequeg disjointedly, "all twiske-tee be-twisk, like him--him--" faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and round as though uncorking a bottle--"like him--him--" "Corkscrew!"  Well done; almost drained.  Speak, but speak!--Aye, aye!  Steward!  men, it is Moby Dick ye have seen--Moby Dick--Moby Dick!" 

"God keep me!--keep us all!"  cried Ahab. 

"Now, three to three, ye stand.  The crew, man, the crew!  That way it went, this way it comes.  Let me touch the axis." 

"And has he a curious spout, too," said Daggoo, "very bushy, even for a parmacetty, and mighty quick, Captain Ahab?" 

"He smites his chest," whispered Stubb, "what's that for?  Ah!  to chase that white whale on both sides of land, and over all sides of earth, till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out.  From this one poor hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back, when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone?  What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now?  What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using his tiara for ewer?  What is it more?  And this is what ye have shipped for, men!  Look!  know ye not the goblet end?  And what is it?  God hunt us all, if we do not hunt Moby Dick to his death!"  said the Gay-Header deliberately. 

"The measure!  come down!"  he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the nearest seaman. 

More and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving, grew the countenance of the old man at every shout; while the mariners began to gaze curiously at each other, as if marvelling how it was that they themselves became so excited at such seemingly purposeless questions.  But in each event--in the living act, the undoubted deed--there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask. 

"Aye, aye!"  was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed voices.  There most sea-captains usually walk at that hour, as country gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in the garden.  But come closer, Starbuck; thou requirest a little lower layer.  And, so full of his thought was Ahab, that at every uniform turn that he made, now at the main-mast and now at the binnacle, you could almost see that thought turn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he paced; so completely possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the inward mould of every outer movement.  Mr.  Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for white water; if ye see but a bubble, sing out."  "Do ye know the white whale then, Tash?" 

"Stab me not with that keen steel!  O men, you will yet see that--Ha!  Hoot!  Let it go.  See Stubb!  art not game for Moby Dick?" 

"Attend now, my braves. 

"Sir!"  "God bless ye, men. 

"I am game for his crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain Ahab, if it fairly comes in the way of the business we follow; but I came here to hunt whales, not my commander's vengeance. 

"In vain!" 

"A dead whale or a stove boat!"