

THE CABIN; BY THE STERN WINDOWS; AHAB SITTING ALONE, AND GAZING OUT.  (WAVING HIS HAND, HE MOVES FROM THE WINDOW.)  this Iron Crown of Lombardy.  No more.  Over unsounded gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under torrents' beds, unerringly I rush!  damned in the midst of Paradise!  'Tis iron--that I know--not gold.  Yet is it bright with many a gem; I the wearer, see not its far flashings; but darkly feel that I wear that, that dazzlingly confounds.  The envious billows sidelong swell to whelm my track; let them; but first I pass.  I thought to find one stubborn, at the least; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and they revolve.  They think me mad--Starbuck does; but I'm demoniac, I am madness maddened!  Good night--good night!  man has ye there.  I laugh and hoot at ye, ye cricket-players, ye pugilists, ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes!  she wearies with her endless hill.  Gifted with the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power; damned, most subtly and most malignantly!  Oh!  time was, when as the sunrise nobly spurred me, so the sunset soothed.  The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run. 

Yonder, by ever-brimming goblet's rim, the warm waves blush like wine.  The diver sun--slow dived from noon--goes down; my soul mounts up!  That's more than ye, ye great gods, ever were.  This lovely light, it lights not me; all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne'er enjoy. 

Dry heat upon my brow?  Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all stand before me; and I their match.  I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer.  I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies--Take some one of your own size; don't pommel ME!  Naught's an obstacle, naught's an angle to the iron way!  that to fire others, the match itself must needs be wasting!  That wild madness that's only calm to comprehend itself!  Oh, hard! 

I leave a white and turbid wake; pale waters, paler cheeks, where'er I sail.  Swerve me?  ye cannot swerve me, else ye swerve yourselves!  Come, Ahab's compliments to ye; come and see if ye can swerve me.  Now, then, be the prophet and the fulfiller one.  The prophecy was that I should be dismembered; and--Aye!  Is, then, the crown too heavy that I wear?  No, ye've knocked me down, and I am up again; but YE have run and hidden.  The gold brow plumbs the blue.  I lost this leg.  I have no long gun to reach ye. 

'Twas not so hard a task.  Come forth from behind your cotton bags!  'Tis split, too--that I feel; the jagged edge galls me so, my brain seems to beat against the solid metal; aye, steel skull, mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the most brain-battering fight!  Swerve me?  What I've dared, I've willed; and what I've willed, I'll do!