

BY THE MAINMAST; STARBUCK LEANING AGAINST IT.  I plainly see my miserable office,--to obey, rebelling; and worse yet, to hate with touch of pity!  Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O ye blessed influences! 

[A BURST OF REVELRY FROM THE FORECASTLE.]  Time and tide flow wide.  But he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me! 

Oh, God!  that revelry is forward!  The white whale is their demigorgon.  Yet is there hope.  The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the small gold-fish has its glassy globe.  The long howl thrills me through!  I think I see his impious end; but feel that I must help him to it. 

My soul is more than matched; she's overmanned; and by a madman!  Horrible old man!  Hark!  but 'tis not me!  the infernal orgies!  Oh, life!  'tis in an hour like this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge,--as wild, untutored things are forced to feed--Oh, life!  Peace!  mark the unfaltering silence aft!  His heaven-insulting purpose, God may wedge aside.  Methinks it pictures life.  Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field!  Whelped somewhere by the sharkish sea.  For in his eyes I read some lurid woe would shrivel me up, had I it.  I would up heart, were it not like lead.  Who's over him, he cries;--aye, he would be a democrat to all above; look, how he lords it over all below!  Foremost through the sparkling sea shoots on the gay, embattled, bantering bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where he broods within his sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the wake, and further on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings.  But my whole clock's run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key to lift again.  Will I, nill I, the ineffable thing has tied me to him; tows me with a cable I have no knife to cut.  Oh!  to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch of human mothers in them!  ye revellers, and set the watch!  and with the soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim, phantom futures!  that horror's out of me!  'tis now that I do feel the latent horror in thee!