

Haul in the chains!  from which not the mightiest whale is free.  Desecrated as the body is, a vengeful ghost survives and hovers over it to scare.  For hours and hours from the almost stationary ship that hideous sight is seen.  There's your law of precedents; there's your utility of traditions; there's the story of your obstinate survival of old beliefs never bottomed on the earth, and now not even hovering in the air!  There's orthodoxy!  It is still colossal.  The sea-vultures all in pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in black or speckled. 

Thus, while in life the great whale's body may have been a real terror to his foes, in his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a world.  The peeled white body of the beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue, it has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk.  Beneath the unclouded and mild azure sky, upon the fair face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous breezes, that great mass of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite perspectives.  Slowly it floats more and more away, the water round it torn and splashed by the insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious flights of screaming fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting poniards in the whale.  There are other ghosts than the Cock-Lane one, and far deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe in them. 

The vast tackles have now done their duty. 

Are you a believer in ghosts, my friend? 

There's a most doleful and most mocking funeral!  And for years afterwards, perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as silly sheep leap over a vacuum, because their leader originally leaped there when a stick was held.  Espied by some timid man-of-war or blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance obscuring the swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass floating in the sun, and the white spray heaving high against it; straightway the whale's unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down in the log--SHOALS, ROCKS, AND BREAKERS HEREABOUTS: BEWARE! 

Nor is this the end.  Let the carcase go astern!  Oh, horrible vultureism of earth!  In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I ween, if peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral they most piously do pounce.  The vast white headless phantom floats further and further from the ship, and every rod that it so floats, what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls, augment the murderous din.