

In the tumultuous business of cutting-in and attending to a whale, there is much running backwards and forwards among the crew.  It was inserted there by my particular friend Queequeg, whose duty it was, as harpooneer, to descend upon the monster's back for the special purpose referred to.  Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue of ginger?  Are you not the precious image of each and all of us men in this whaling world?  What were you about saying, sir?" 

"Ginger-jub!  take that!  firewood?--lucifer matches?--tinder?--gunpowder?--what the devil is ginger, I say, that you offer this cup to our poor Queequeg here."  Suspended over the side in one of the stages, Tashtego and Daggoo continually flourished over his head a couple of keen whale-spades, wherewith they slaughtered as many sharks as they could reach.  Starbuck, had the face to offer that calomel and jalap to Queequeg, there, this instant off the whale.  But this was not the only jamming jeopardy he was exposed to. 

When Stubb reappeared, he came with a dark flask in one hand, and a sort of tea-caddy in the other.  It was mentioned that upon first breaking ground in the whale's back, the blubber-hook was inserted into the original hole there cut by the spades of the mates. 

But courage!  is ginger the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to kindle a fire in this shivering cannibal?  and will you have the goodness to tell me, Mr.  Starbuck.  This improvement upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man than Stubb, in order to afford the imperilled harpooneer the strongest possible guarantee for the faithfulness and vigilance of his monkey-rope holder. 

"Ginger?  and run along with ye to the lockers, and get something better. 

I have hinted that I would often jerk poor Queequeg from between the whale and the ship--where he would occasionally fall, from the incessant rolling and swaying of both. 

Being the savage's bowsman, that is, the person who pulled the bow-oar in his boat (the second one from forward), it was my cheerful duty to attend upon him while taking that hard-scrabble scramble upon the dead whale's back.  So, then, an elongated Siamese ligature united us.  On the occasion in question, Queequeg figured in the Highland costume--a shirt and socks--in which to my eyes, at least, he appeared to uncommon advantage; and no one had a better chance to observe him, as will presently be seen.  So that for better or for worse, we two, for the time, were wedded; and should poor Queequeg sink to rise no more, then both usage and honour demanded, that instead of cutting the cord, it should drag me down in his wake.  I hope I do no wrong, Mr.  Some hot Cognac?  No!  there is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg.  You have got out insurances on our lives and want to murder us all, and pocket the proceeds, do ye?"  "Yes, this must be ginger," peering into the as yet untasted cup.  But poor Queequeg, I suppose, straining and gasping there with that great iron hook--poor Queequeg, I suppose, only prayed to his Yojo, and gave up his life into the hands of his gods. 

It was a humorously perilous business for both of us.  We must now retrace our way a little.  You have seen Italian organ-boys holding a dancing-ape by a long cord.  They meant Queequeg's best happiness, I admit; but in their hasty zeal to befriend him, and from the circumstance that both he and the sharks were at times half hidden by the blood-muddled water, those indiscreet spades of theirs would come nearer amputating a leg than a tall.  Accordingly, besides the monkey-rope, with which I now and then jerked the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what seemed a peculiarly ferocious shark--he was provided with still another protection.  Then standing as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards the astonished steward slowly saying, "Ginger?  Sea-coal? * *The monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequod that the monkey and his holder were ever tied together.  Unappalled by the massacre made upon them during the night, the sharks now freshly and more keenly allured by the before pent blood which began to flow from the carcass--the rabid creatures swarmed round it like bees in a beehive. 

So strongly and metaphysically did I conceive of my situation then, that while earnestly watching his motions, I seemed distinctly to perceive that my own individuality was now merged in a joint stock company of two; that my free will had received a mortal wound; and that another's mistake or misfortune might plunge innocent me into unmerited disaster and death.  Queequeg was my own inseparable twin brother; nor could I any way get rid of the dangerous liabilities which the hempen bond entailed.  The first contained strong spirits, and was handed to Queequeg; the second was Aunt Charity's gift, and that was freely given to the waves. 

Nevertheless, it may well be believed that since they have such a ravenous finger in the pie, it is deemed but wise to look sharp to them.  For now, as with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at last climbs up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily trembling over the side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent, consolatory glance hands him--what?  Ginger!  you gingerly rascal!  and may I ask whether this is the sort of bitters by which he blows back the life into a half-drowned man?"  suspiciously asked Stubb, coming near. 

"Only this: go down with him, and get what thou wantest thyself." 

"I trust not," said Starbuck, "it is poor stuff enough."  "Will you look at that kannakin, sir; smell of it, if you please." 

"Aye, aye, steward," cried Stubb, "we'll teach you to drug a harpooneer; none of your apothecary's medicine here; you want to poison us, do ye? 

Well, well, my dear comrade and twin-brother, thought I, as I drew in and then slacked off the rope to every swell of the sea--what matters it, after all?  Do I smell ginger?" 

"It was not me," cried Dough-Boy, "it was Aunt Charity that brought the ginger on board; and bade me never give the harpooneers any spirits, but only this ginger-jub--so she called it." 

"Enough," replied Starbuck, "only don't hit him again, but--" "Oh, I never hurt when I hit, except when I hit a whale or something of that sort; and this fellow's a weazel.  But in very many cases, circumstances require that the harpooneer shall remain on the whale till the whole tensing or stripping operation is concluded.  It is much the same with him who endeavors the description of the scene.  hands him, ye gods!  Ginger!--what the devil is ginger?  For, before we proceed further, it must be said that the monkey-rope was fast at both ends; fast to Queequeg's broad canvas belt, and fast to my narrow leather one.  Just so, from the ship's steep side, did I hold Queequeg down there in the sea, by what is technically called in the fishery a monkey-rope, attached to a strong strip of canvas belted round his waist.  But how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that same hook get fixed in that hole?  There is no staying in any one place; for at one and the same time everything has to be done everywhere.  So down there, some ten feet below the level of the deck, the poor harpooneer flounders about, half on the whale and half in the water, as the vast mass revolves like a tread-mill beneath him.  Therefore, I saw that here was a sort of interregnum in Providence; for its even-handed equity never could have so gross an injustice.  If your banker breaks, you snap; if your apothecary by mistake sends you poison in your pills, you die.  But handle Queequeg's monkey-rope heedfully as I would, sometimes he jerked it so, that I came very near sliding overboard. 

"There is some sneaking Temperance Society movement about this business," he suddenly added, now approaching Starbuck, who had just come from forward.  True, you may say that, by exceeding caution, you may possibly escape these and the multitudinous other evil chances of life.  The whale, be it observed, lies almost entirely submerged, excepting the immediate parts operated upon.  A thing altogether incredible were it not that attracted by such prey as a dead whale, the otherwise miscellaneously carnivorous shark will seldom touch a man.  It is the captain's orders--grog for the harpooneer on a whale."  Then watching the mate's countenance, he added, "The steward, Mr.  ginger?  hands him a cup of tepid ginger and water! 

And right in among those sharks was Queequeg; who often pushed them aside with his floundering feet.  Nor could I possibly forget that, do what I would, I only had the management of one end of it.  Now hands are wanted here, and then again hands are wanted there.  That unsounded ocean you gasp in, is Life; those sharks, your foes; those spades, your friends; and what between sharks and spades you are in a sad pickle and peril, poor lad.  This procedure of theirs, to be sure, was very disinterested and benevolent of them.  Is the steward an apothecary, sir?  And yet still further pondering--while I jerked him now and then from between the whale and ship, which would threaten to jam him--still further pondering, I say, I saw that this situation of mine was the precise situation of every mortal that breathes; only, in most cases, he, one way or other, has this Siamese connexion with a plurality of other mortals.