

Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest fangs: the tiger of Bengal crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure. 

Towards evening of that day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and bare-poled was left to fight a Typhoon which had struck her directly ahead. 

Overhearing Starbuck, the panic-stricken crew instantly ran to the braces--though not a sail was left aloft.  A moment or two passed, when Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one.  Relieved against the ghostly light, the gigantic jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his real stature, and seemed the black cloud from which the thunder had come.  But all their pains seemed naught.  The lightning flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and ache; my whole beaten brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning ground.  Through thee, thy flaming self, my scorched eyes do dimly see it.  Glancing upwards, he cried: "See!  see!" 

[SUDDEN, REPEATED FLASHES OF LIGHTNING; THE NINE FLAMES LEAP LENGTHWISE TO THRICE THEIR PREVIOUS HEIGHT; AHAB, WITH THE REST, CLOSES HIS EYES, HIS RIGHT HAND PRESSED HARD UPON THEM.] 

To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance of the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teeter over to a seething sea; but in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath when God's burning finger has been laid on the ship; when His "Mene, Mene, Tekel Upharsin" has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage. 

All the yard-arms were tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each tri-pointed lightning-rod-end with three tapering white flames, each of the three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air, like three gigantic wax tapers before an altar.  But dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck, and snatching the burning harpoon, Ahab waved it like a torch among them; swearing to transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope's end.  Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps, all round the world it runs, and then comes the spring!  And that ye may know to what tune this heart beats; look ye here; thus I blow out the last fear!"  cried Ahab.  "Blast it!"  said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to his pivot-hole; but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed lances of fire.  A great rolling sea, dashing high up against the reeling ship's high teetering side, stove in the boat's bottom at the stern, and left it again, all dripping through like a sieve.  For the moment all the aghast mate's thoughts seemed theirs; they raised a half mutinous cry. 

"Who's there?"  cried Ahab; "let's have fair play here, though we be the weaker side.  Light though thou be, thou leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of light, leaping out of thee!  Oh, thou magnanimous!  drop them over, fore and aft.  leap up, and lick the sky!  the very course he swung to this day noon?  Yes, our three masts will yet be as three spermaceti candles--that's the good promise we saw." 

"Avast!" --but slipping backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and immediately shifting his tone he cried--"The corpusants have mercy on us all!"  cried Starbuck, seizing Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his hand towards the weather bow, "markest thou not that the gale comes from the eastward, the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick?  And look ye, Mr.  Mr. 

Ahab's harpoon, the one forged at Perth's fire, remained firmly lashed in its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat's bow; but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather sheath to drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came a levelled flame of pale, forked fire. 

"The corpusants have mercy on us all," cried Stubb, again.  "Look up at it; mark it well; the white flame but lights the way to the White Whale!  Here again with haughty agony, I read my sire.  So." 

"Bad work, bad work!  Quick!" 

"Blast the boat!  Stubb, for one, can't fight it.  There burn the flames!  Starbuck--but it's too dark to look.  Hand me those mainmast links there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let mine beat against it; blood against fire!  I know that of me, which thou knowest not of thyself, oh, thou omnipotent.  It was Stubb.  In the stern-sheets, man; where he is wont to stand--his stand-point is stove, man!  Thou canst blind; but I can then grope.  I own thy speechless, placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me.  So, too, it is, that in these resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all storms, the Typhoon.  ill begun, ill continued; let me square the yards, while we may, old man, and make a fair wind of it homewards, to go on a better voyage than this." 

"But I am not a brave man; never said I was a brave man; I am a coward; and I sing to keep up my spirits.  Thou knowest not how came ye, hence callest thyself unbegotten; certainly knowest not thy beginning, hence callest thyself unbegun.  But do they only have mercy on long faces?--have they no bowels for a laugh?  And I tell you what it is, Mr.  Starbuck," said Stubb, regarding the wreck, "but the sea will have its way.  The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not?  Oh, thou foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou too hast thy incommunicable riddle, thy unparticipated grief.  Now jump overboard, and sing away, if thou must! 

Oh!  thou clear spirit of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian once did worship, till in the sacramental act so burned by thee, that to this hour I bear the scar; I now know thee, thou clear spirit, and I now know that thy right worship is defiance.  To neither love nor reverence wilt thou be kind; and e'en for hate thou canst but kill; and all are killed.  It will sometimes burst from out that cloudless sky, like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.  As the silent harpoon burned there like a serpent's tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm--"God, God is against thee, old man; forbear!  jolly is the gale, And a joker is the whale, A' flourishin' his tail,-- Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  Starbuck, there's no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my throat. 

As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain, men fly the neighborhood of some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and strength but render it so much the more unsafe, because so much the more a mark for thunderbolts; so at those last words of Ahab's many of the mariners did run from him in a terror of dismay.  Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee.  Come in thy lowest form of love, and I will kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere supernal power; and though thou launchest navies of full-freighted worlds, there's that in here that still remains indifferent. 

While this pallidness was burning aloft, few words were heard from the enchanted crew; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastle, all their eyes gleaming in that pale phosphorescence, like a far away constellation of stars.  Take the homage of these poor eyes, and shutter-hands. 

The tableau all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more the Pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall.  Though lifted to the very top of the cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab's) did not escape. 

Thunder splits the ships, But he only smacks his lips, A tastin' of this flip,-- Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  what hast thou done with her?  Oh, cruel!  let it go!"  cried Starbuck. 

"Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to Nantucket," soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb's question. 

Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; at every flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional disaster might have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb and Flask were directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer lashing of the boats.  In various enchanted attitudes, like the standing, or stepping, or running skeletons in Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the deck; but all their eyes upcast.  Though but a point at best; whencesoe'er I came; wheresoe'er I go; yet while I earthly live, the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal rights.  The parted mouth of Tashtego revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangely gleamed as if they too had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by the preternatural light, Queequeg's tattooing burned like Satanic blue flames on his body.  When darkness came on, sky and sea roared and split with the thunder, and blazed with the lightning, that showed the disabled masts fluttering here and there with the rags which the first fury of the tempest had left for its after sport. 

At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness, following the flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the same instant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.  Oh, thou clear spirit, of thy fire thou madest me, and like a true child of fire, I breathe it back to thee." 

"Avast Stubb," cried Starbuck, "let the Typhoon sing, and strike his harp here in our rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy peace."  "Are they overboard?  Oh, oh!  now mark his boat there; where is that stove?  And when that's done, ten to one I sing ye the doxology for a wind-up." 

"What!  'tis an ill voyage!  Leap!  look through my eyes if thou hast none of thine own."  Petrified by his aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart that he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke:-- "All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and heart, soul, and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound.  Yet I'll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes, that all the world may be secured; but out on privileges!  And with one blast of his breath he extinguished the flame. 

The scud all a flyin', That's his flip only foamin'; When he stirs in the spicin',-- Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  the corpusants!"  cried Stubb at this instant, as a swashing sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale violently jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing.  Nor was it wrung from me; nor do I now drop these links.  Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign of good luck; for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be chock a' block with sperm-oil, d'ye see; and so, all that sperm will work up into the masts, like sap in a tree.  "What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the same in the song." 

"Aye, aye, men!"  cried Starbuck, "look at thy boat, old man!"  cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished to vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux, to light Ahab to his post. 

At the base of the mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame, the Parsee was kneeling in Ahab's front, but with his head bowed away from him; while near by, from the arched and overhanging rigging, where they had just been engaged securing a spar, a number of the seamen, arrested by the glare, now cohered together, and hung pendulous, like a knot of numbed wasps from a drooping, orchard twig.  But war is pain, and hate is woe.  Let them be, sir." 

"Oh!  how can you see better of a dark night than anybody else, never mind how foolish?" 

"Old Thunder!" 

"Madman!  the rods!"  and once more the high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed redoubled supernaturalness in their pallor.  In the midst of the personified impersonal, a personality stands here.  I leap with thee; I burn with thee; would fain be welded with thee; defyingly I worship thee!" 

"Here!" 

At that moment Starbuck caught sight of Stubb's face slowly beginning to glimmer into sight.  But as for me, all the start I have to meet it, is just across the deck here.  But never mind; it's all in fun: so the old song says;"--(SINGS.)  "The gale that now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it into a fair wind that will drive us towards home.  You see, Mr.  Skies the most effulgent but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba knows tornadoes that never swept tame northern lands.  No fearless fool now fronts thee.  But thou art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I know not.  I would not take it.  Thou canst consume; but I can then be ashes.  There is some unsuffusing thing beyond thee, thou clear spirit, to whom all thy eternity is but time, all thy creativeness mechanical. 

Now, as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off the perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea some ships carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water. 

"I own thy speechless, placeless power; said I not so?  There lies my puzzle; but thine is greater. 

Then turning--the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his foot upon the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm, he stood erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.  But as this conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may avoid all contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly towing there, it would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering not a little with some of the rigging, and more or less impeding the vessel's way in the water; because of all this, the lower parts of a ship's lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made in long slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the chains outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require. 

"Look aloft!"  "The corpusants!  the boat!" 

"The boat!  now I do glory in my genealogy. 

"I don't half understand ye: what's in the wind?" 

"No, no, it wasn't; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I hope they will, still.  Yonder, to windward, all is blackness of doom; but to leeward, homeward--I see it lightens up there; but not with the lightning." 

"The rods!