

While now the fated Pequod had been so long afloat this voyage, the log and line had but very seldom been in use.  So."  Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee?  Jerk him, Tahiti!  Haul in, haul in, Tahitian!  Pip!  come to help; eh, Pip?"  "Take the reel, one of ye, I'll heave." 

"There go two daft ones now," muttered the old Manxman. 

"I know not, sir, but I was born there." 

"What's this?  A hatchet!  here's velvet shark-skin," intently gazing at Ahab's hand, and feeling it.  Pip jumped from the whale-boat.  With these grey hairs of mine 'tis not worth while disputing, 'specially with a superior, who'll ne'er confess."  Rains and spray had damped it; sun and wind had warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that hung so idly.  Let's see now if ye haven't fished him up here, fisherman.  Heave the log!"  The dead, blind wall butts all inquiring heads at last. 

"Forward, there!  there's his arm just breaking water.  Jerk him off; we haul in no cowards here. 

Two seamen came. 

They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship's lee side, where the deck, with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into the creamy, sidelong-rushing sea.  Here, boy; Ahab's cabin shall be Pip's home henceforth, while Ahab lives.  See to it." 

"And who art thou, boy?  Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?  Who's seen Pip the coward?" 

"'Twill hold, old gentleman.  I'll see Mr.  Ding, dong, ding!  look down here.  Pip's missing.  Up with the reel!  Up with it!  sir, sir!  lo!" 

The log was heaved. 

Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the old Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to speak.  But Ahab can mend all.  One hundred pounds of clay reward for Pip; five feet high--looks cowardly--quickest known by that!  Haul in here, Tahitian; reel up, Manxman.  Mend it, eh?  Ho!  that man should be a thing for immortal souls to sieve through!  see the omniscient gods oblivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not what he does, yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude.  This seems to me, sir, as a man-rope; something that weak souls may hold by.  I think we had best have a new line altogether.  Owing to a confident reliance upon other means of determining the vessel's place, some merchantmen, and many whalemen, especially when cruising, wholly neglect to heave the log; though at the same time, and frequently more for form's sake than anything else, regularly putting down upon the customary slate the course steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of progression every hour.  The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long dragging line astern, and then, instantly, the reel began to whirl.  It had been thus with the Pequod.  The wooden reel and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the railing of the after bulwarks.  Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not thou it." 

"What's that? 

Snap!  a hatchet!  Pip!  It drags hard; I guess he's holding on.  I feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an Emperor's!"  "One daft with strength, the other daft with weakness.  These lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and dragging slow.  Thou seem'st to hold.  Thou'st hit the world by that." 

"In the Isle of Man, hey?  Well, the other way, it's good.  Come!  cut it off--we haul in no cowards here.  I see not my reflection in the vacant pupils of thy eyes.  But just as my captain says.  But here's the end of the rotten line--all dripping, too.  Lo!  the overstrained line sagged down in one long festoon; the tugging log was gone. 

The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projecting handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool of line revolved, so stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced to him.  The ship was sailing plungingly; astern the billows rolled in riots.  The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman. 

"The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser," muttered Ahab, advancing. 

"Peace, thou crazy loon," cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm. 

"Hold hard!"  here's Pip, trying to get on board again." 

"Excellent!  Lo!  whom call ye Pip?  Ha, Pip?  Captain Ahab!  In turn, jerkingly raised and lowered by the rolling billows, the towing resistance of the log caused the old reelman to stagger strangely. 

"There he goes now; to him nothing's happened; but to me, the skewer seems loosening out of the middle of the world. 

"I hold the spool, sir.  Come, let's down." 

"Astern there, sir, astern!  Stubb about it."  "Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing as this, perhaps he had ne'er been lost!  Oh, sir, let old Perth now come and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the white, for I will not let this go." 

"There can be no hearts above the snow-line.  But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he happened to glance upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet scene, and he remembered how his quadrant was no more, and recalled his frantic oath about the level log and line.  There now's a patched professor in Queen Nature's granite-founded College; but methinks he's too subservient.  Come, then, to my cabin.  Who art thou, boy?"  "Hands off from that holiness!  And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and mend thou the line.  Where wert thou born?" 

"Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse horrors than are here.  Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings.  Oh, ye frozen heavens!  ye believers in gods all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you!  Pip! 

"Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet have spoiled it." 

"In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir." 

"Bell-boy, sir; ship's-crier; ding, dong, ding!  Oh God!  Ye did beget this luckless child, and have abandoned him, ye creative libertines.  Here's a man from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man; which is sucked in--by what? 

"Pip? 

"I crush the quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad sea parts the log-line.  "Away from the quarter-deck!"