

THE COFFIN LAID UPON TWO LINE-TUBS, BETWEEN THE VICE-BENCH AND THE OPEN HATCHWAY; THE CARPENTER CAULKING ITS SEAMS; THE STRING OF TWISTED OAKUM SLOWLY UNWINDING FROM A LARGE ROLL OF IT PLACED IN THE BOSOM OF HIS FROCK.--AHAB COMES SLOWLY FROM THE CABIN-GANGWAY, AND HEARS PIP FOLLOWING HIM. 

(AHAB TO HIMSELF.)  This wooden mallet is the cork, and I'm the professor of musical glasses--tap, tap!"  The grey-headed woodpecker tapping the hollow tree!  But art thou not also the undertaker?" 

"Um, um; go on." 

"Art not thou the leg-maker?  Dost thou never?" 

"Sing, sir?  Oh, I'm indifferent enough, sir, for that; but the reason why the grave-digger made music must have been because there was none in his spade, sir.  He's always under the Line--fiery hot, I tell ye!  Rat-tat!  how immaterial are all materials!  Look at thy bosom!  See!  oh!  and get these traps out of sight." 

"But I do not mean anything, sir.  I do as I do." 

"Thank ye, man.  That was sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot latitudes.  So it does, sir, so it does." 

"Well enough.  What's that?" 

"He goes aft.  He goes!  Not this hand complies with my humor more genially than that boy.--Middle aisle of a church!  Hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a coffin?  Does it go further?  Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself?  Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the coffin knock against the churchyard gate, going in?  Hark to it."  Thy coffin lies handy to the vault." 

"Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, intermeddling, monopolising, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the next day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those same coffins?  Oh, look, sir!  I've heard that the Isle of Albemarle, one of the Gallipagos, is cut by the Equator right in the middle.  But the caulking mallet is full of it.  So far gone am I in the dark side of earth, that its other side, the theoretic bright one, seems but uncertain twilight to me.  Beware the hatchway!" 

"Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently.  Now, then, Pip, we'll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous philosophies from thee!  Look, did not this stump come from thy shop?" 

"Faith, sir, I've--" "Faith?  A life-buoy of a coffin!  Here now's the very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made the expressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life.  A most malicious wag, that fellow.  Seems to me some sort of Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his middle.  And yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much the same, Carpenter.  Blind and dumb might well be envied now.  But no. 

"The gods again.  What's here?" 

"Why, faith, sir, it's only a sort of exclamation-like--that's all, sir." 

"There's a sight!  The hatchway?  Despatch!  that thing rests on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines. 

"Life-buoy, sir.  I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return again.  I'll think of that.  So man's seconds tick!  He's looking this way--come, oakum; quick.  The Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the craters for volcanoes; and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in hand.  Here we go again.  Do I sing?  Can it be that in some spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver!  Oh!  Mr.  Starbuck's orders.  Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a jack-of-all-trades." 

"Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a coffin for Queequeg; but they've set me now to turning it into something else." 

"Aye, and that's because the lid there's a sounding-board; and what in all things makes the sounding-board is this--there's naught beneath.  There's a sound!  What things real are there, but imponderable thoughts?  Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds must empty into thee!" 

"Sir? 

"I believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?" 

"I was about to say, sir, that--" "Art thou a silk-worm?  Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed sound?