

The morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh, and once more the solitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds of the daylight look-outs, who dotted every mast and almost every spar. 

Their hands met; their eyes fastened; Starbuck's tears the glue. 

"Befooled, befooled!"  cried Ahab from the boat; "its wood could only be American!" 

Diving beneath the settling ship, the whale ran quivering along its keel; but turning under water, swiftly shot to the surface again, far off the other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab's boat, where, for a time, he lay quiescent.  He seemed swimming with his utmost velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight path in the sea.  Crushed thirty feet upwards, the waters flashed for an instant like heaps of fountains, then brokenly sank in a shower of flakes, leaving the circling surface creamed like new milk round the marble trunk of the whale. 

But Ahab heard nothing; for his own voice was high-lifted then; and the boat leaped on.  Am I cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwrecked captains?  Run tilting at it, and you but run through it.  We'll talk to-morrow, nay, to-night, when the white whale lies down there, tied by head and tail." 

"Sir?" --cried Ahab, tossing the mate's arm from him. 

"Drive, drive in your nails, oh ye waves!  'tis the better rest, the shark's jaw than the yielding water." 

"But at every bite, sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smaller!"  murmured Starbuck gazing over the side, and following with his eyes the receding boat--"canst thou yet ring boldly to that sight?--lowering thy keel among ravening sharks, and followed by them, open-mouthed to the chase; and this the critical third day?--For when three days flow together in one continuous intense pursuit; be sure the first is the morning, the second the noon, and the third the evening and the end of that thing--be that end what it may.  I misdoubt me that I disobey my God in obeying him!" 

"Oars!  must ye then perish, and without me?  Is't night?" 

"For the third time my soul's ship starts upon this voyage, Starbuck." 

"The whale, the whale!  But where?  what is this that shoots through me, and leaves me so deadly calm, yet expectant,--fixed at the top of a shudder!  Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist, it hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swamping back into the deep.  Time itself now held long breaths with keen suspense. 

Yet the voice spake true; for scarce had he pushed from the ship, when numbers of sharks, seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneath the hull, maliciously snapped at the blades of the oars, every time they dipped in the water; and in this way accompanied the boat with their bites.  They must lead somewhere--to something else than common land, more palmy than the palms.  No such green weather stains on Ahab's head!  speak aloud!--Mast-head there!  Aloft there!  all my life-long fidelities?  Oh, Ahab, Ahab, lo, thy work.  THUS, I give up the spear!"  cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight.  A low rumbling sound was heard; a subterraneous hum; and then all held their breaths; as bedraggled with trailing ropes, and harpoons, and lances, a vast form shot lengthwise, but obliquely from the sea.  Slope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be for ever too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time upon his mark! 

Hearing the tremendous rush of the sea-crashing boat, the whale wheeled round to present his blank forehead at bay; but in that evolution, catching sight of the nearing black hull of the ship; seemingly seeing in it the source of all his persecutions; bethinking it--it may be--a larger and nobler foe; of a sudden, he bore down upon its advancing prow, smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam. 

Suddenly the waters around them slowly swelled in broad circles; then quickly upheaved, as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of ice, swiftly rising to the surface.  On deck there!--brace sharper up; crowd her into the wind's eye. 

Ahab staggered; his hand smote his forehead. 

"Lower away!"  cried the cringing oarsmen. 

"I turn my body from the sun.  I seem to see but thy eyes grown wondrous blue.  Lashed round and round to the fish's back; pinioned in the turns upon turns in which, during the past night, the whale had reeled the involutions of the lines around him, the half torn body of the Parsee was seen; his sable raiment frayed to shreds; his distended eyes turned full upon old Ahab.  Strangest problems of life seem clearing; but clouds sweep between--Is my journey's end coming?  Why fly ye not, O Ahab!  I grin at thee, thou grinning whale!  Stand over that helmsman with a top-maul!  Man the braces!"  cried a voice from the low cabin-window there; "O master, my master, come back!" 

Almost simultaneously, with a mighty volition of ungraduated, instantaneous swiftness, the White Whale darted through the weltering sea.  Ahab stooped to clear it; he did clear it; but the flying turn caught him round the neck, and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim, he was shot out of the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone. 

For an instant, the tranced boat's crew stood still; then turned. 

"Nothing, sir." 

"What breaks in me?  I'd crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink there. 

Whether fagged by the three days' running chase, and the resistance to his swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or whether it was some latent deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was true, the White Whale's way now began to abate, as it seemed, from the boat so rapidly nearing him once more; though indeed the whale's last start had not been so long a one as before.  A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this through prison corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and ventilated them, and now comes blowing hither as innocent as fleeces. 

In due time the boats were lowered; but as standing in his shallop's stern, Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent, he waved to the mate,--who held one of the tackle-ropes on deck--and bade him pause. 

"D'ye see him?"  cried Ahab, advancing to the hempen basket. 

In an instant the boat was pulling round close under the stern.  Glancing upwards, he saw Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the three mast-heads; while the oarsmen were rocking in the two staved boats which had but just been hoisted to the side, and were busily at work in repairing them.  Even Ahab is a braver thing--a nobler thing than THAT.  Future things swim before me, as in empty outlines and skeletons; all the past is somehow grown dim.  I see thee again.--Aye, and thou goest before; and this, THIS then is the hearse that thou didst promise.  By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live flesh every way.  My God, stand by me now!"  cried Ahab to the oarsmen, and the boats darted forward to the attack; but maddened by yesterday's fresh irons that corroded in him, Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell from heaven.  Next instant, the heavy eye-splice in the rope's final end flew out of the stark-empty tub, knocked down an oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in its depths.  Helm there; steady, as thou goest, and hast been going.  Like dislodged trucks, the heads of the harpooneers aloft shook on their bull-like necks.  Some fell flat upon their faces.  Let not Starbuck die, if die he must, in a woman's fainting fit. 

"Oh!  ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel; and only god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and Pole-pointed prow,--death-glorious ship!  Feel thy heart,--beats it yet?  Ha!  ha!"  helmsman, steady. --drawing in a long lean breath--"Aye, Parsee!  About!  were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the angels, and this morning the first of its throwing open to them, a fairer day could not dawn upon that world. 

"Against the wind he now steers for the open jaw," murmured Starbuck to himself, as he coiled the new-hauled main-brace upon the rail. 

The harpoon dropped from his hand. 

"Stand not by me, but stand under me, whoever you are that will now help Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here.  The doubloon goes a-begging!  One after the other, through the port-holes, as he sped, he also caught flying glimpses of Stubb and Flask, busying themselves on deck among bundles of new irons and lances. 

At length as the craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along with the White Whale's flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of its advance--as the whale sometimes will--and Ahab was fairly within the smoky mountain mist, which, thrown off from the whale's spout, curled round his great, Monadnock hump; he was even thus close to him; when, with body arched back, and both arms lengthwise high-lifted to the poise, he darted his fierce iron, and his far fiercer curse into the hated whale.  As it was, three of the oarsmen--who foreknew not the precise instant of the dart, and were therefore unprepared for its effects--these were flung out; but so fell, that, in an instant two of them clutched the gunwale again, and rising to its level on a combing wave, hurled themselves bodily inboard again; the third man helplessly dropping astern, but still afloat and swimming. 

The harpoon was darted; the stricken whale flew forward; with igniting velocity the line ran through the grooves;--ran foul.  Soon they through dim, bewildering mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom, as in the gaseous Fata Morgana; only the uppermost masts out of water; while fixed by infatuation, or fidelity, or fate, to their once lofty perches, the pagan harpooneers still maintained their sinking lookouts on the sea. 

Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullen white surf beat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and the great shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago.  Great God, where is the ship?" 

"Forehead to forehead I meet thee, this third time, Moby Dick!  It is thou, thou, that madly seekest him!" 

"Heed them not!  gone down again?" 

"Oh, my captain, my captain!--noble heart--go not--go not!--see, it's a brave man that weeps; how great the agony of the persuasion then!" 

"Heart of wrought steel!" 

"Starbuck!"  let me hear thy hammer.  Sink all coffins and all hearses to one common pool! 

Steering as she had done, the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod's quarter, so that now being pointed in the reverse direction, the braced ship sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own white wake.  For all that, I would yet ring glasses with ye, would ye but hand the cup!  My legs feel faint; like his who has footed it all day.  Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolness and a calmness; and our poor hearts throb, and our poor brains beat too much for that.  So, so; he travels fast, and I must down.  I only wish that we were where they grow.  In every fight it has the last and bitterest blow.  Through the breach, they heard the waters pour, as mountain torrents down a flume. 

The boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from the mast-heads--a downward pointed arm, Ahab knew that the whale had sounded; but intending to be near him at the next rising, he held on his way a little sideways from the vessel; the becharmed crew maintaining the profoundest silence, as the head-beat waves hammered and hammered against the opposing bow. 

A whole hour now passed; gold-beaten out to ages.  For me, off shoes and jacket to it; let Stubb die in his drawers!  he should still go before me, my pilot; and yet to be seen again?  Where is the second hearse?  Were I the wind, I'd blow no more on such a wicked, miserable world.  And now marking that the vane or flag was gone from the main-mast-head, he shouted to Tashtego, who had just gained that perch, to descend again for another flag, and a hammer and nails, and so nail it to the mast.  A most mouldy and over salted death, though;--cherries!  about!  pull on!--But who can tell"--he muttered--"whether these sharks swim to feast on the whale or on Ahab?--But pull on!  The sails shake!  oars!  to their uttermost heads drive them in!  Stir thyself, Starbuck!--stave it off--move, move!  See!  aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks.  As he saw all this; as he heard the hammers in the broken boats; far other hammers seemed driving a nail into his heart. 

He gave the word; and still gazing round him, was steadily lowered through the cloven blue air to the deck. 

Setting sail to the rising wind, the lonely boat was swiftly impelled to leeward, by both oars and canvas.  These warm Trade Winds, at least, that in the clear heavens blow straight on, in strong and steadfast, vigorous mildness; and veer not from their mark, however the baser currents of the sea may turn and tack, and mightiest Mississippies of the land swift and swerve about, uncertain where to go at last. 

Meantime, for that one beholding instant, Tashtego's mast-head hammer remained suspended in his hand; and the red flag, half-wrapping him as with a plaid, then streamed itself straight out from him, as his own forward-flowing heart; while Starbuck and Stubb, standing upon the bowsprit beneath, caught sight of the down-coming monster just as soon as he.  Good-bye, mast-head--keep a good eye upon the whale, the while I'm gone.  There's the difference now between man's old age and matter's. 

But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over the sunken head of the Indian at the mainmast, leaving a few inches of the erect spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of the flag, which calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over the destroying billows they almost touched;--at that instant, a red arm and a hammer hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air, in the act of nailing the flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar. 

"Cherries?  Out upon it!--it's tainted.  There's a soft shower to leeward.  But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with the line, and hold it so; and commanded the crew to turn round on their seats, and tow the boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous line felt that double strain and tug, it snapped in the empty air! 

"Give way!"  "Stand by the crew!" 

While Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping the strained planks; and as the whale swimming out from them, turned, and showed one entire flank as he shot by them again; at that moment a quick cry went up.  "God keep us, but already my bones feel damp within me, and from the inside wet my flesh.  I am old;--shake hands with me, man." 

"The whale!  Up helm, up helm!  Such lovely leewardings!  who ever conquered it?  Would now the wind but had a body; but all the things that most exasperate and outrage mortal man, all these things are bodiless, but only bodiless as objects, not as agents.  But these were the first sharks that had been observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been first descried; and whether it was that Ahab's crew were all such tiger-yellow barbarians, and therefore their flesh more musky to the senses of the sharks--a matter sometimes well known to affect them,--however it was, they seemed to follow that one boat without molesting the others.  Aye, all alive, now--we near him.  The same!--the same!--the same to Noah as to me.  I can't compare with it; and I've known some ships made of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vital stuff of vital fathers.  Retribution, swift vengeance, eternal malice were in his whole aspect, and spite of all that mortal man could do, the solid white buttress of his forehead smote the ship's starboard bow, till men and timbers reeled. 

But he looked too nigh the boat; for as if bent upon escaping with the corpse he bore, and as if the particular place of the last encounter had been but a stage in his leeward voyage, Moby Dick was now again steadily swimming forward; and had almost passed the ship,--which thus far had been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for the present her headway had been stopped. 

From the ship's bows, nearly all the seamen now hung inactive; hammers, bits of plank, lances, and harpoons, mechanically retained in their hands, just as they had darted from their various employments; all their enchanted eyes intent upon the whale, which from side to side strangely vibrating his predestinating head, sent a broad band of overspreading semicircular foam before him as he rushed.  "We should meet him soon." 

"Stand by to sway me up!" 

"Nothing!  let me pass,"--and so saying two of the oarsmen helped him forward to the bows of the still flying boat.  But good bye, good bye, old mast-head!  Pull on!  thou grinning whale, but there'll be plenty of gulping soon!  And now, concentric circles seized the lone boat itself, and all its crew, and each floating oar, and every lance-pole, and spinning, animate and inanimate, all round and round in one vortex, carried the smallest chip of the Pequod out of sight.  As both steel and curse sank to the socket, as if sucked into a morass, Moby Dick sideways writhed; spasmodically rolled his nigh flank against the bow, and, without staving a hole in it, so suddenly canted the boat over, that had it not been for the elevated part of the gunwale to which he then clung, Ahab would once more have been tossed into the sea.  Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell's heart I stab at thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee.  Come down, all of ye, but the regular look outs!  he soars away with it!--Where's the old man now?  He's too far off to lower yet, Mr.  Leeward!  oh, oh!  these same Trades that so directly blow my good ship on; these Trades, or something like them--something so unchangeable, and full as strong, blow my keeled soul along!  Up helm, I say--ye fools, the jaw!  I've oversailed him.  He turns to meet us!  Dash on, my men!  cherries!  take the helm!  I grin at thee, thou grinning whale!  God only has that right and privilege.  It is a thing not uncommonly happening to the whale-boats in those swarming seas; the sharks at times apparently following them in the same prescient way that vultures hover over the banners of marching regiments in the east.  The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad white forehead, beneath the transparent skin, looked knitted together; as head on, he came churning his tail among the boats; and once more flailed them apart; spilling out the irons and lances from the two mates' boats, and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows, but leaving Ahab's almost without a scar.  "I grow blind; hands!  cherries!  again!--drive off that hawk!  Up helm again!  those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars.  But I hold thee to the last letter of thy word. 

"Some ships sail from their ports, and ever afterwards are missing, Starbuck!" 

"In his infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that's all.  Burst in upon him!"  Look ye, sun, moon, and stars!  from all your furthest bounds, pour ye now in, ye bold billows of my whole foregone life, and top this one piled comber of my death!  Fool!  oars!  those boats are useless now; repair them if ye can in time, and return to me; if not, Ahab is enough to die--Down, men!  The hearse!--the second hearse!"  Ha!  a coward wind that strikes stark naked men, but will not stand to receive a single blow. 

But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the sledge-hammering seas, the before whale-smitten bow-ends of two planks burst through, and in an instant almost, the temporarily disabled boat lay nearly level with the waves; its half-wading, splashing crew, trying hard to stop the gap and bale out the pouring water.  And at last when Ahab was sliding by the vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck's face as he leaned over the rail, he hailed him to turn the vessel about, and follow him, not too swiftly, at a judicious interval.  Is this the end of all my bursting prayers?  Away, mates, to the ship!  he pecks--he tears the vane"--pointing to the red flag flying at the main-truck--"Ha!  and noon at hand!  ye but strike a thing without a lid; and no coffin and no hearse can be mine:--and hemp only can kill me!  See ye my boy's hand on the hill?--Crazed;--aloft there!--keep thy keenest eye upon the boats:-- "Mark well the whale!--Ho!  the ship!  see'st thou that sight, oh Ahab!--shudder, shudder!"  See the sun!  and all night I've been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to.  Ho, ho!  the lines--the harpoons he's towing.  There's a most special, a most cunning, oh, a most malicious difference!  How the wild winds blow it; they whip it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the tossed ship they cling to.  Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb's own unwinking eye?  What a lovely day again!  stretch out before me that I may yet grope my way.  A sky-hawk that tauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there; this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between the hammer and the wood; and simultaneously feeling that etherial thrill, the submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his hammer frozen there; and so the bird of heaven, with archangelic shrieks, and his imperial beak thrust upwards, and his whole captive form folded in the flag of Ahab, went down with his ship, which, like Satan, would not sink to hell till she had dragged a living part of heaven along with her, and helmeted herself with it.  But at last, some three points off the weather bow, Ahab descried the spout again, and instantly from the three mast-heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had voiced it.  Aye, aye, like many more thou told'st direful truth as touching thyself, O Parsee; but, Ahab, there thy shot fell short.  Here's food for thought, had Ahab time to think; but Ahab never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels; THAT'S tingling enough for mortal man!  Will ye not save my ship?" 

"The ship!  the white whale goes that way; look to windward, then; the better if the bitterer quarter.  And yet, I say again, and swear it now, that there's something all glorious and gracious in the wind.  Oh, lonely death on lonely life!  And still this hair is growing now; this moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, it's like that sort of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the earthy clefts of Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava.  And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that is all too soft; would it were stuffed with brushwood!  Oh, now I feel my topmost greatness lies in my topmost grief.  An old, old sight, and yet somehow so young; aye, and not changed a wink since I first saw it, a boy, from the sand-hills of Nantucket!  And still as Ahab glided over the waves the unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciously stuck to the boat; and so continually bit at the plying oars, that the blades became jagged and crunched, and left small splinters in the sea, at almost every dip.  But let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea; there's time for that.  What's this?--green?  The helm!  Moby Dick seeks thee not.  Ye are not other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.--Where's the whale?  Aye, he's chasing ME now; not I, HIM--that's bad; I might have known it, too.  What's that he said?  Aye, aye, I have run him by last night.  But aye, old mast, we both grow old together; sound in our hulls, though, are we not, my ship?  What d'ye see?" 

"Aye, aye, sir," and straightway Starbuck did Ahab's bidding, and once more Ahab swung on high.  But he rallied. 

"The sharks!  my God!  the jaw!  the first thing that but offers to jump from this boat I stand in, that thing I harpoon.  Will I have eyes at the bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs?  Oh, all ye sweet powers of air, now hug me close!  To it!  and since neither can be mine, let me then tow to pieces, while still chasing thee, though tied to thee, thou damned whale!  Steady!  Nay, nay!  thou fadest in pale glories behind me; boy!  I see: the ship!  see!  Aye, minus a leg, that's all.  And yet, I've sometimes thought my brain was very calm--frozen calm, this old skull cracks so, like a glass in which the contents turned to ice, and shiver it.  And yet, 'tis a noble and heroic thing, the wind!  Oh, oh!  the sharks!"  The ship!"  "The ship?  Oh!  Aye, aye, it must be so.  I call ye assassins of as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost. 

"They will last long enough!  And by the eternal Poles!  Some sinew cracks!--'tis whole again; oars!  Mary, girl!  Oh, Flask, for one red cherry ere we die!" 

"Aye, sir, thou wilt have it so." 

"Truth, sir: saddest truth." 

"Some men die at ebb tide; some at low water; some at the full of the flood;--and I feel now like a billow that's all one crested comb, Starbuck.  Oh, his unappeasable brow drives on towards one, whose duty tells him he cannot depart.  How, got the start?  Oh, Stubb, I hope my poor mother's drawn my part-pay ere this; if not, few coppers will now come to her, for the voyage is up."  Oh!  Ahab," cried Starbuck, "not too late is it, even now, the third day, to desist.  What ho, Tashtego!  to think's audacity.  Starbuck.